---
layout: post
title: "Why a blog"
author: "Juan Pablo Conejero y Herrera"
date: 2021-10-03
---

<p align="justify"> Being this the first entry on my blog, I think it is a good idea to start by explaining its very existence. We live in a world characterised by quick access to information. Whenever a question pops up in our minds, we can quickly find an answer -hopefully a good one- in a matter of seconds. In addition to speed, we tend to prefer short answers over more elaborate ones. Some of the platforms we use on a daily basis to access and share information (e.g. Twitter) even have limits to the number of characters we can use to convey our message. This is not a problem when transmitting simple messages such that where and when will an event take place. However, for more complex messages such that an explanation of why we are better off than a century ago, a few dozen characters may not be enough. Here is the first reason for writing a blog. There are no limits on how many characters I can use to convey my message. Thereof, complex ideas can be explained fully facilitating understanding and avoiding misunderstandings. </p>

<p align="justify"> A second reason is the appropriateness of the medium of communication. Instead of writing a blog, I could create a podcast to transmit my message orally or even create a YouTube channel and reinforce my message with the help of pictures. The reason why I do not do this is simple: a blog entry contains no distractions. It is just the reader and the text. In my opinion, this generates an atmosphere that is conducive to reflection, criticism, and assimilation. To better understand this, consider yourself at this moment. The speed at which you read this blog entry is completely determined by you and not by me. You may decide to speed up, stop to think about the last sentence you read or even read it again if you did not understand it well -probably my fault-. This facilitates understanding and it is only with understanding where assimilation and eventually criticism can take place. Yet, I must say I may be a bit biased from my personal preference for written sources. </p>

<p align="justify"> Up to this moment, I had rather focused on arguing why a blog is my preferred medium of communication, yet I have not mentioned the reason why I want to share my ideas. It is quite common for individuals to want to make a meaningful impact. There are many ways in which we can do so. Sharing ideas with others is the way I probably like the most. Throughout all these years, I have benefited greatly from the ideas of philosophers, scientists, and other thinkers. It is high time I give back, at least partially, what I have been given! For this reason, in my blog I will disclose what I have learnt from others as well as ideas which, although I would like to call my own, are rather a product of others’ ideas with a small personal twist. Finally, I would like to end with a wish. The wish that this blog may become, sometime in the future, a place where I also get to know about you and your ideas, especially if they are contrary to mine. </p>

<p> Without anything to add, I bid you farewell. </p>

